# Clean and analyse social media usage data with Python - Coursera
This document describes the process I used to produce the coursework for the [Clean and analyse social media usage data with Python](https://www.coursera.org/learn/analyze-social-media-python/) project, hosted by Coursera. All outputs created while undertaking this project are included in this repository.

# Project description
The project states that you are to act as a entry-level data analyst at a fictional social media agency. I gave the fictional social media company the name **ACME-Blammo-XYZ**. This agency specialises in promoting brands and products on a popular social media platform, such as twitter/X. No data is actually collected from any external sites as the script randomly generates its own data file.

The process will use a python script to automatically extract tweets posted from one or more categories, and to clean, analyse and visualise that data.

# Project data, source and validity
The project states that the script should generate random, Twitter-syle data to use for the subsequent analysis. As the data is randomly generated, it is not subject to any ownership or data privacy concerns.

The data is evaluated by the ROCC metric [Reliability, Originality, Comprehension, Current, Cited], as follows:
- **Reliability**: Good - the project requires that the data to be used is randomly generated. As such, the data comes from a 'first order' sourse and so can be considered to be highly reliable
-  **Originality**: Good - as the data is generated for the project, it is original
-  **Comprehension**: Good - the script generates data only for the topics required so the data that is created covers the whole set of candidate topics
-  **Current**: Good - the script sets the date for the data that is generated so it can be considered to be 'Current'
-  **Cited**: Poor - as the data is unique to this project it is not quoted in any external sources, beyond this report

# Deliverables
This project creates a number of deliverables which are:
- the [data analysis report](./Report.md)
- the python script used for the analysis
- a Jupyter notebook version of the script
- a graphic that is generated by the script and is used in the analysis
